# Behavioral Design Patterns for Java

This repository will be introduced the structural GOF design patterns for Java. The patterns are:

1. Chain of Responsibility - Create a chain, where each object decides whether to process or transmit to another element of the chain.  **Usage examples:** When you need to execute different requests differently, whereas such possibilities are not known in advance.
2. Command - Allows you to create commands to queued for transaction flow control and enable rollback. **Usage examples:** When you need this object to be used to encapsulate all the information necessary to perform the action or trigger the event.
3. Iterator - This pattern is used to get a way to access the elements of a collection object in sequential manner without any need to know its underlying representation. **Usage examples:** When you have to go through a collection of objects without knowing their data structure.
4. Mediator is a design pattern that reduces coupling between components of program by making them communicate indirectly, through a special mediator object. **Usage examples:** When you need to control the intent among two or more objects, reducing the coupling.
5. Memento - Allows you to save and restore the state from an object without to reveal details of the implementation. **Usage examples:** When you need to restore old versions from an object.
6. Observer - Allows one objects to notify other objects about changes in their state. **Usage examples** when there is one-to-many relationship between objects such as if one object is modified, its depenedent objects are to be notified automatically.
7. Visitor - is a design pattern that lets you separate algorithms from the objects on which they operate. **Usage examples** When you need to change or execute an algorithm to a class.
8. Strategy - is a design pattern that lets you define a family of algorithms, put each of them into a separate class and make their objects interchangeable. **Usage examples** Use the strategy pattern when you want to use differents variants of an algorithm within an object and be able to switch from  one algorithm to another during runtime.
9. State - The state is a design pattern that lets an object alter its behavior when it's internal state changes. It appears as if the object changed its class. **Usage examples** When you have an object that behaves differently depending on its current state, the number of states is enormous, and the state-specific code changes frequently.
10. Template Method - This pattern defines the skeleton of an algorithm in the superclass but lets subclasses override specific steps of the algorithm without changing its structure. **Usage examples** when you have several classes that contain almost identical algorithms with some minor differences.
